# Market-Basket-Analysis-Using-Spark-s-SON-Algorithm

## Summary
- Implemented the SON Algorithm within Apache Spark to perform market basket analysis on simulated and real-world datasets, identifying frequent itemsets and optimizing for distributed processing.
- Developed a Spark RDD-based data pipeline to preprocess and analyze large-scale e-commerce transactions, applying advanced data mining techniques for efficient market-basket modeling.
- Achieved performance optimization by effectively managing Spark’s in-memory data storage and executing parallelized data transformations and actions, leading to timely insights on customer purchasing patterns.
- Documented and reported the project execution, demonstrating substantial runtime efficiency and scalability in handling massive datasets.

## Prerequisites
Python 3.x
Apache Spark
PySpark library

## Files
task1.py: Main Python script implementing the SON Algorithm using MapReduce in Spark.
task2.py: Python script that executes the SON algorithm using Spark's RDDs for distributed computation of frequent itemsets.

## Usage
Execute the script with the following command, providing the case number, support threshold, input file path, and output file path as arguments:
- spark-submit task1.py <case_number> <support> <input_file_path> <output_file_path>
- spark-submit task2.py <filter_threshold> <support> <input_file_path> <output_file_path>

## Features
For task1:
- Preprocesses input data to create market baskets based on user or business IDs.
- Utilizes A-Priori algorithm to identify frequent singletons and generates candidate itemsets.
- Employs MapReduce to scale the algorithm over partitioned data, ensuring efficiency with large datasets.
- Outputs the candidates and frequent itemsets into the specified file in a human-readable format.

For task2:
- Data preprocessing to extract relevant transaction information.
- SON algorithm implementation in two phases using Spark map and reduce functions.
- Output generation for both candidate and frequent itemsets.


## Output
The output will consist of two sections for task1.py:
- Candidates: Itemsets generated by the algorithm which are potential frequent itemsets.
- Frequent Itemsets: The itemsets that meet or exceed the support threshold.

The script outputs two types of itemsets for task2.py:
- Candidates: Potential frequent itemsets generated after the first phase of the SON algorithm.
- Frequent Itemsets: Actual frequent itemsets that meet the support threshold after the second phase.
